STA 3180 Guided Research Project Rubric
The entire written report (excluding references and the title page) must be between 10- 15 pages (single-
spaced, 11 or 12pt font with standard 1-inch margins).
While there are no specific structural limitations to the paper, one possible structure is suggested below.
Title (on title page)
Abstract (on title page)
Background and Significance (part of 10-15 pages)
Methods (part of 10-15 pages)
Results (part of 10-15 pages)
Discussion/Conclusions (part of 10-15 pages)
References (not included in the 10—15-page limit)
Thefollowing information expands on the above:
1. Title - Give an informative title to your project.
2. Abstract- The abstract provides a summary ofthe entire paper (background, methods, results, and
conclusions). The suggested length is no more than 150 words. This allows you approximately 1 sentence
(and likely no more than two sentences) summarizing each ofthe following sections. Typically, abstracts
are the last thing you write.
3. Background and significance- In this section you are providing the background ofthe research area
and arguing why it is interesting and significant. This section relies heavily on literature review (prior
research done in this area and facts that argue why the research is important). This whole section should
provide the necessary background leading up to a presentation (in the last few sentences ofthis section) of
the research hypotheses that you will be testing in your study. Well-accepted facts and/or referenced
statements should serve as most ofthe content ofthis section. Typically, the background and significance
sections start very broad and moves towards the specific area/hypotheses you are testing.
4. Methods-
a. Data collection. Explain how the data was collected/experiment was conducted. Additionally, you
should provide information on the individuals who participated to assess representativeness. Non-
response rates and other relevant data collection details should be mentioned here ifthey are an
issue. However, you should not discuss the impact ofthese issues here---save that for the limitations
section.
b. Variable creation. Detail the variables in your analysis and how they are defined (ifnecessary). For
example, ifyou created a combined (frequency times quantity) drinking variable you should describe
how.
c. Analytic Methods. Explain the statistical procedures that will be used to analyze your data. E.g.,
Regression is used to investigate the relationship between class attendance and class scores.
NAWPYNS

5. Results - Typically, results sections start with descriptive statistics, e.g., what percent ofthe sample is
male/female, what is the mean GPA overall, in the different groups, etc. Figures can be nice to illustrate
these differences! However, information presented must be relevant in helping to answer the research
question(s) ofinterest. Typically, inferential (i.e., hypothesis tests) statistics come next. Tables can often
be helpful for results from multiple regression. Do not give computer output here! This should look like a
peer-reviewed journal article results section. Tables and figures should be labeled, embedded in the text,
and referenced appropriately. The results section typically makes for fairly dry reading. It does not
explain the impact offindings, it merely highlights and reports statistical information.
6. Discussion/Conclusions - Restate your objective and draw connections between your analyses and
objective. In other words, how did (or didn’t) you answer/address your objective. Place these all in the
larger scope ofprevious research on your topic (i.e., what you found from the literature review), that is,
how do your findings help the field move forward? Talk about the limitations ofyour findings and
possible areas for future research to better investigate your research question. End with a concluding
sentence ortwo that summarizes your key findings and impact on the field.
7. References- appropriate citations are provided
